improve docs (#39)
carvel-dev/imgpkg: docs/basic-workflow.md

---
title: Basic Workflow
---

## Scenario

> You want to create an immutable artifact containing Kubernetes configuration and images used in that configuration. Then later grab that artifact and deploy it to Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You want to create an immutable artifact containing Kubernetes configuration and images used in that configuration. Later, you want to grab that artifact and deploy it to Kubernetes.
```

## Prerequisites

To complete this workflow you will need access to an OCI registry like Docker Hub, and optionally, 

> a Kubernetes cluster. (If you would like to use a local registry (with local Kubernetes cluster), try using [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/local-registry/))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Kubernetes cluster. (If you would like to use a local registry and Kubernetes cluster, try using [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/local-registry/))
```

> If you would like to deploy the results of this scenario to your Kubernetes cluster, download [`kbld`](https://get-kbld.io/) and kubectl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to deploy the results of this scenario to your Kubernetes cluster, you will additionally need [`kbld`](https://get-kbld.io/) and kubectl.
```

## Step 1: Creating the bundle

1. Prepare bundle contents

>     [examples/basic-step-1/](../examples/basic-step-1) directory has `config.yml` which contains very small example of a Kubernetes application. Your application may have as many configuration files as necessary in various formats such as plain YAML, ytt templates, Helm templates, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The [examples/basic-step-1/](../examples/basic-step-1) directory has a `config.yml` file, which contains a very simple Kubernetes application. Your application may have as many configuration files as necessary in various formats such as plain YAML, ytt templates, Helm templates, etc.
```

>     In our example `config.yml` uses `docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app` image reference. This image reference is not pointing to an exact image (via digest) meaning that it may change over time. We will try to lock it down to an exact image next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In our example `config.yml` includes an image reference to `docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app`. This reference does not point to an exact image (via digest) meaning that it may change over time. To ensure we get precisely the bits we expect, we will lock it down to an exact image next.
```

1. Add `.imgpkg/` directory

>     [examples/basic-step-2](../examples/basic-step-2) shows what `.imgpkg/` directory may look like. It contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [examples/basic-step-2](../examples/basic-step-2) shows what a `.imgpkg/` directory may look like. It contains:
```

>     - **optional** [bundle.yml](resources.md#bundle-metadata) file which record informational metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **optional** [bundle.yml](resources.md#bundle-metadata): a file which records informational metadata
```

>     - **required** [images.yml](resources.md#imageslock) file which records image references used by the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **required** [images.yml](resources.md#imageslock): a file which records image references used by the configuration
```

    ```bash
    examples/basic-step-2
    ├── .imgpkg
    │   ├── bundle.yml
    │   └── images.yml
    └── config.yml
    ```

>     Note that `.imgpkg/images.yml` contains a list of images, each with fully resolved digest reference (e.g `index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4...`) and a little bit of additional metadata (e.g. `annotations` section). See [ImagesLock configuration](resources.md#imageslock-configuration) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note that `.imgpkg/images.yml` contains a list of images, each with fully resolved digest references (e.g `index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4...`) and a little bit of additional metadata (e.g. `annotations`). See [ImagesLock configuration](resources.md#imageslock-configuration) for additional details.
```

Author: "each" only has one digest reference, right?

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: imgpkg.carvel.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: ImagesLock
    spec:
      images:
      - image: index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0
        annotations:
          kbld.carvel.dev/id: docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app
    ```

>     This allows us to record exact image that is used by our Kubernetes configuration. We expect that `.imgpkg/images.yml` would be created either manually, or in an automated way. Our recommendation is to use [kbld](get-kbld.io) to generate `.imgpkg/images.yml`:

Reviewer: > created either manually, or in an automated way.

What other way is there? Should we suggest automated and let users figure out manual?

```suggestion
    This allows us to record the exact image that will be used by our Kubernetes configuration. We expect that `.imgpkg/images.yml` would be created either manually, or in an automated way. Our recommendation is to use [kbld](get-kbld.io) to generate `.imgpkg/images.yml`:
```

    ```bash
    $ cd examples/basic-bundle/

    $ kbld -f config.yml --imgpkg-lock-output .imgpkg/images.yml
    ```

---

> ## Step 2: Pushing the bundle to registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Pushing the bundle to a registry
```

> 1. [Authenticate with registry](auth.md) where we will push our bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Authenticate with a registry](auth.md) where we will push our bundle
```

> 1. Push bundle to the registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Push the bundle to the registry
```

>     You can push bundle with our bundle contents to OCI registry using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can push the bundle with our specified contents to an OCI registry using the following command:
```

    ```
    $ imgpkg push -b index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle:v1.0.0 -f examples/basic-step-2

    dir: .
    dir: .imgpkg
    file: .imgpkg/bundle.yml
    file: .imgpkg/images.yml
    file: config.yml
    Pushed 'index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle@sha256:ec3f870e958e404476b9ec67f28c598fa8f00f819b8ae05ee80d51bac9f35f5d'

    Succeeded
    ```

    Flags used in the command:

>       * `-b` (`--bundle`) refers to a location for a bundle within OCI registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * `-b` (`--bundle`) refers to a location for a bundle within an OCI registry
```

      * `-f` (`--file`) indicates directory contents to include

> 1. Bundle is now available at `index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle:v1.0.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The pushed bundle is now available at `index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle:v1.0.0`
```

```suggestion
1. The pushed bundle is now hosted at `index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle:v1.0.0`
```

---
## Step 3: Pulling the bundle to registry

> Now that we have pushed a bundle to a registry, other users can pull our bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have pushed a bundle to a registry, other users can pull it.
```

> 1. [Authenticate with registry](auth.md) from where to pull our bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Authenticate with the registry](auth.md) from which we'll pull our bundle
```

1. Download the bundle by running the following command:

    ```bash
    $ imgpkg pull -b index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle:v1.0.0 -o  /tmp/simple-app-bundle

    Pulling image 'index.docker.io/user1/simple-app-bundle@sha256:ec3f870e958e404476b9ec67f28c598fa8f00f819b8ae05ee80d51bac9f35f5d'
    Extracting layer 'sha256:7906b9650be657359ead106e354f2728e16c8f317e1d87f72b05b5c5ec3d89cc' (1/1)
    Locating image lock file images...
    One or more images not found in bundle repo; skipping lock file update

    Succeeded
    ```

    Flags used in the command:

>       * `-b` (`--bundle`) refers to a location for a bundle within OCI registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * `-b` (`--bundle`) refers to a location for a bundle within an OCI registry
```

>       * `-o` (`--output`) indicates destination directory on the local machine where to place bundle contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * `-o` (`--output`) indicates the destination directory on your local machine where the bundle contents will be placed
```

    Bundle contents will be extracted into `/tmp/simple-app-bundle` directory:

    ```bash
    /tmp/simple-app-bundle
    ├── .imgpkg
    │   ├── bundle.yml
    │   └── images.yml
    └── config.yml
    ```

    __Note:__ The message `One or more images not found in bundle repo; skipping lock file update` is expected, and indicates that `/tmp/simple-app-bundle/.imgpkg/images.yml` (ImagesLock configuration) was not modified.

    If imgpkg had been able to find all images that were referenced in the [ImagesLock configuration](resources.md#imageslock-configuration) in the registry where bundle is located, then it would update `.imgpkg/images.yml` file to point to the registry-local locations.

    See what happens to the lock file if you run the same pull command after [copying](air-gapped-workflow.md) the bundle to another registry!

---
## Step 4: Use pulled bundle contents

> 1. Now that we have have pulled bundle contents to a local directory, we can deploy Kubernetes configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now that we have have pulled the bundle's contents to a local directory, we can deploy Kubernetes configuration:
```

Author: im using "bundle contents" as a dedicated term. distinct from bundle's contents?

>     Before we apply Kubernetes configuration, let's use [kbld](get-kbld.io) to ensure that Kubernetes configuration uses exact image reference from `.imgpkg/images.yml`. (You can of course use other tools to take advantage of data stored in `.imgpkg/images.yml`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before we apply the Kubernetes configuration, let's use [kbld](get-kbld.io) to ensure that we get exact image reference from `.imgpkg/images.yml`. (You can of course use other tools to take advantage of data stored in `.imgpkg/images.yml`).
```

    ```bash
    $ cd /tmp/simple-app-bundle/

    $ kbld -f ./config.yml -f .imgpkg/images.yml | kubectl apply -f-

    resolve | final: docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0 -> index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0
    resolve | final: index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0 -> index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0

    service/simple-app configured
    deployment/simple-app configured
    ```

>     kbld found `docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app` in Kubernetes configuration and replaced it with `index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0` before forwarding configuration to kubectl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kbld found `docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app` in the Kubernetes configuration and replaced it with a complete immutable digest, `index.docker.io/dkalinin/k8s-simple-app@sha256:4c8b96d4fffdfae29258d94a22ae4ad1fe36139d47288b8960d9958d1e63a9d0`, before forwarding the configuration to kubectl.
```

## Next steps

> In this workflow we show how to publish and then download a bundle to distribute Kubernetes application. Next, follow [Air-gapped workflow](air-gapped-workflow.md) to see how we can use `imgpkg copy` command to copy bundle between registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this workflow we saw how to publish and download a bundle to distribute a Kubernetes application. Next, follow the [Air-gapped workflow](air-gapped-workflow.md) to see how we can use the `imgpkg copy` command to copy a bundle between registries.
```
